Hello.
Good afternoon, sir. Good afternoon, sir.
Good, a good afternoon.
Good afternoon, good afternoon.
Give me a moment. Let me open up my Google notebook.
Uh, what should you,
So you have received my, uh, PDF last night.
I think I have sent her, they might have uploaded till now.
Have you received it? Chapter eight and nine PDF?
I haven't checked it for sure. Check it out.
No, because yesterday night,
8:00 PM I have sent by email to them.
Okay, so let me open from my end this PDF
chapter eight and nine.
Lemme do the sharings
Until card poor learning.
It's there, sir.
Okay. Probably they'll send it today,
Maybe sir.
So you're able to see the screen.
This is chapter eight that I have sent. Yes sir.
This is chapter eight and nine.
I have extracted, I have sent it to you.
So this is, we are into deep reinforcement learning.
So this chapter eight on what this is
a deep reinforcement learning.
However, we are into the only value based
deep reinforcement learning.
Okay? So, uh,
just give, let me give you a brief,
what we have done the last two days, that is
the same problem of frozen lake.
Using Q learning, we are going
to solve the same problem using neural network.
That is why that is called as deep reinforcement learning.
But till now what we have learned
is this part.
So supervised, supervised learning,
this is part of your machine learning.
Okay? Then any planning problem that cannot be solved
by machine learning, which is solved
by reinforcement learning.
Examples of reinforcement learning are bandaid, bandaid,
basically you basically, you have this three party walking,
uh, one directional floor,
and then we have tabular reinforcement learning.
Tabular reinforcement learning means it is model based
reinforcement learning within the policy ation.
After that is we are now into model three.
Inside model three, we have done it using formula.
Based from this week onward,
we are getting into deep reinforcement learning.
Okay, so this chapter 8, 9, 10, 11, 12
for deep reinforcement learning, as I told, we are going
to use neural network.
So for that I had shown you,
yeah, so this, these are the two type of
scars or how I'm not able to move it out.
Okay. For, uh, we have solved
Your, we have solved taxi using
normal Q learning.
Today I, I want to show you using deep Q learning.
So as I told you, you are going to be using a neural network
that will accept your state.
Your state can be defined by the number of variables.
Like for carpool, you have
four elements in your state.
In case of frozen lake, your state is defined
by one particular new medical value.
Today, we'll show you by using, uh, frozen leg, okay?
And the output of the neural network is the number
of action possible for that environment.
In case of you have only two actions, either you go forward
or go back, okay?
And uh, these are the two neuron used for two
different action
and the value that is generated by this neural network
from the neurons,
these values are basically called as Q function.
So Qs, MI, okay, so we are going
to predict the queue function for the entire
environment for the frozen lake
or cart pull or whatever it is.
Okay? So this has
already been done last week.
Uh, last class. So as I told you are going to have your
cost function by which you are going to make your, uh,
learning is going
back again and again.
So look at for using any
kind of neural network, you have to come up with a, uh,
for this neur networks are basically supervised learning.
So you have to come up with a cost function
and you have to come up with the desired value
that you're trying to predict.
Yeah. So what are the desired value you are going
to use it for?
Now, we'll assume that
we are already having the real queue values available to us.
If we have the valuable, uh, values are available to us,
how can we train a neural network that can be used
to predict those values?
Okay? How we are going to get the value.
Uh, the real value is basically by using normal Q learning.
Okay? Now you may have a question that if I'm going
to use normal fuel learning, then why should I go
for this deep fuel learning?
And the answer is basically the main reason
for any deep learning framework is
if you have access to sample of any real values,
you can train a neural network by which you can predict the
uh, uh,
whatever value you are going to mimic.
Okay? So you just require the set of values.
If you have access to them, you can train a network
that can generate that pattern.
So that is the main reason of any deep learning framework.
Okay? So as I told you yesterday, last class I told you,
suppose you are using chat GPT Azure agent.
Okay? So you are asking any question,
it is giving you the answer.
You assume that those answers are correct. Okay?
Now you have access to the answers for many questions.
So question and answer, question answer pair.
You want to do a reverse scenario.
That is you want to build a separate agent
by looking at this question and answer pairs.
Okay? So for that you are going to develop some um,
deep learning architecture that is going
to mimic the chat GBT kind of thing.
So for that you just require this question and answer pair.
So you just have, you need to have access
to the real values.
So that is what I have given you the
explanation, yes, last course.
Okay? So for that we need to come up with the
cost function that will help to
make your prediction near to the real value.
So for every cost, uh, most
of the cases we are using means squared error.
So for means squared error, our cost function will be
your, this is your target value,
this reward plus gamma multiplied
by maximizing overall possible action for the Q function.
But this is a target value.
You're taking subtraction with the prediction value.
So these values are keep on changing,
whereas this target value will not be changing.
Okay? So this, if this is your cost function
that is subtraction between them whole square
and this subtraction is going to be taken
for all possible values of state action, reward,
and next date, okay?
The state action reward
and next date for all possible actions, state
and next date, you are going
to take this subtraction, do the submission.
Again, that becomes your expectation.
So this is called mean square error.
If this is the cost function, we need
to apply gradient dis design technique
so that you can update your neural weight, weight parameter.
This neural weight are denoted by hea. Okay?
So this is your gradient operation.
So gradient in the last class I have already shown you,
let me open up, open up the Microsoft whiteboard.
Let me open the whiteboard.
I
Last plus it was
after doing this recap, I will go into the
python notebook.
Uh, it is not enlarging,
Okay?
Okay, so just remember from the last class,
I'm just doing a, we are going to use gradient descent.
So gradient descents, basically
the weight parameter you are updating.
So the weight parameter at the ation t plus one will be
getting updated by the previous estimate
of weight parameter at the hydration of T minus of your
post derivative, of your loss function.
So foster derivative in case of,
in case of Q learning, this is Q study
a easier desired value provided to you,
and this is your prediction.
Take the derivative with respect to theta.
So this one time it'll be coming down in the ground
and then ative of this term, ative of this time,
as I told this is constant.
So this ator is gonna zero,
and here the ator will be gradient of this thing.
So this is gradient of the cost, uh, not cost one.
This is gradient of your Q function.
Gradient of your Q function is also unknown parameter.
So that is where we are getting stuck here, okay?
So there are a lot of approximation methods are there,
which says that this gradient of this Q function,
you can just assume that forget about this
gradient operation, just have this value
because we don't have any access to
any parametric function of Q.
Because Q function basically coming to you
as a sample valve, you don't have any parameter, uh, means
uh, so suppose lets me write it here if you want to say that
Q function, the
queue function is basically
a comm, a parameterized by theta.
This semicolon means it is parameterized by the,
if the Q function is some kind of function, let's say
a theta
square plus a theta,
if it is in this kind of form, you can take a derivative
of this thing, okay?
Just consider if it is available in this kind of form,
you can take a derivative of this,
but you have only the values for this function
for a particular is for a particular A,
you have some real value.
Let's say the 0.23 or 0.5
or any values, how can you take the derivative of this?
That is the main problem for ways there are various kind
of approximation techniques.
However, in our uh, two days
and tomorrow's lecture, I'm going
to talk about deep Q learning
without taking this derivative and all.
Okay? So that is basically the method is now
by the help of
two neural network.
So there are two neural network that we're going to maintain
by which we're going to solve this essentially.
It also involves a deploy memory,
okay?
We are, we are going to avoid this gradient technique, okay?
That is why we're going to take two neural networks.
So here the techniques are basically we'll maintain
two neural networks.
So first neural network is basically these are the input
neurons, all these up to whatever number
of states you are having, okay?
This input size is entirely depending whatever number
of states are having you are having for
that particular environment.
After that, you will get into defining your
multi-layer perceptron like these, whatever number
of intermediate states you want.
Finally, this is your Frozen leg problem.
We are having only four elements in your output layer.
This four stands for four possible actions. Okay?
So this network is called training network
or or policy network,
Okay?
The exact same structure will be there
for another neur network, okay?
You have to replicate their architecture,
whatever you are using in their training, training network.
And the output layer is only four elements.
This is your output layer.
This network is called target
network, okay?
In the target network we are, okay, so what is your input
and output for a frozen leg
problem, your input should be of the dimension.
Your input should be of the dimension 16.
There will be 16 nos here
because you have four, four cross four grid
of your frozen leg, total number of states possibilities,
fif 16, okay?
You have to encode each and every state.
So you are having this four cross, four grid,
1, 2, 3,
Um, Two, three.
This cell is zero,
this cell is 1, 2, 3, 4, and all.
Okay? So you have to encode, let's say I'm going to encode
the state number four.
So in that case, out of these 16 nodes,
the fourth element is going to be set
to be one rest dollar zero.
So it is one hot encoding wherever state you are going to,
whichever state you are going to encode, just make
that particular neuron to be one rest all at zero.
So that is your input, encoding and your output.
Encoding is for every state you are going
to have four possible election, up, down, right, left,
and all this stands for your up,
down, left, right?
Okay. So
the value predicted by every neuron is called Q
of is comm A.
So A stands for your input state.
A stands for your output actions
the value predicted by this neuron.
That neuron is basically your key of this.
This value you have to, for the target network, you have
to fit them on the target network.
You have to feed those values
in the same as you know that our formula,
this Q function formula is going to be,
You already have that formula, right?
That is Q of S comm, a
Q of S comm, a plus the learning rate
multiplied by reward plus gamma multiplied by
maximization over next, uh, actions.
Simulation of this for
you are going to take one action.
So you are going to be into new state S dash
and all possible a dash from here,
this minus of here, old ua, this thing, this is
what we existing format that we're using.
So this part is called target
And the whole thing is called the error, okay?
By which we're adjusting our current estimate.
So this target value, we have to have access
to it beforehand, before we start our training.
So this target value, we need to compute
and feed that into this neural network
of target neural network.
Okay? And that value, we are going to store it
and we are going to train this neural network so
that the output of this uh, training network
should be close to the output of the target neural network.
Okay? That is our main objective here.
So whatever we do is basically we are going to assume
that we have access to the DLQ hellos,
DLQ hellos and the role real qs will be stored
inside the target networks output space.
Okay? Then we are going to train the
policy network or training network so
that the output predicted by the policy network will be
as close as possible to the target network.
Once it has become almost very close to this,
then I will f in new example.
New example means, what is the example here?
State and action pair.
For every state, I'm having four possible action
to be chosen, okay?
Let's say any state like
I have total 16 states, 16 is my uh, last stage.
So zero to 15.
So 15 state reward is coming to be one for all other state,
the reward is going to be zero.
So let's say before that state it is 14.
14, any action call a this value,
I'm getting it from a pre-computer value.
So that is my, this is called QStar is a real value
that I'm getting by using some formula
from q learning normal Q learning, I store that value.
Then I use that value
to train my training network here.
So for that, let's say this is my training network.
So I write at
QTR training network.
For that, this value will be
as near as to the
after completion of training.
It'll become near to the real value, okay?
Then I will fetch a new sample, new sample
for every time sample means basically you are taking
a action under the current state, a random action,
1, 2, 3, anything.
You get into some new state that becomes a new sample.
Under the new sample machine, you are going to a new state.
For the new state. Also you have access
to the all possible action from a pre-computer value.
Use that value as your payer
of example to train this network.
So this will go on repeatedly until for every state,
the all possible outcome for a particular state is as near
as to the target network.
So that is what is our objective.
Uh, I will show you the
Python code now.
So I'm going to make a neural network architecture,
which is best multiline, a multilayer perception network.
Okay? So this class is called deep Q network.
In the deep, I'm accepting input states,
what are my hidden states and what are my output space.
That means all possible actions from my
queue network.
Okay? So then my output space, then I configure.
Then I make this uh, architecture that I'm taking
a linear layer from the neural network, two parameters,
input state and then the hidden state.
This is the first layer. Then I have a output layer
that is hidden state, getting connected
to the output space, okay?
There have only two layer ment.
Then after I just connect the input to the output space.
So the play memory, what is it I will get,
I will talk about it after explanation
of the environmental architecture.
Okay? So D play memory plays a major role
because we need to train our neural network
with a large number of samples.
Samples means you have state
and action pair those samples you to collect it from your
pre computed values, put them into a memory area.
So then whenever you are taking a new sample,
you insert into memory.
Once the memory is larger than your mini batch size,
then you start fetching the samples from your memory area.
Then those samples will be feed to your deep Q network.
Okay, I will talk about this later.
Let me tell you about the neural network architecture.
So this is a hyper parameters like learning rate discount
factor, okay?
So, uh, network syncing rate,
network syncing rate is basically, as I told you,
we are going to use this all the time here.
We are going to take the value from our target network
for the output space.
We are going to train this network so
that this value predicted by our training network should be
as close as possible to the output,
pre output given from your target network.
Once this training is done,
that means this value is very near to the target network.
Then the weight of this network is going to be
copy rover, the target network.
Okay? So let me tell you once again
this copy, why do we need to do,
because first is we need to have access
to our real examples that we are providing it by computation
of normal Q learning formula.
After that, we are trying
to making a network which will be trained so
that the predictive valve will be
as nearest to the real valve.
Then we need to save this thing
because I'm going to feed another example
and that feeding will further change the weights over here.
In that case, I will be losing uh, the mapping
for the particular state and action pair.
So what I'll do is I'll copy this into the target network.
After that, I get in a new sample
for another state and action pair.
That sample, I'll be using it here to train this network.
Again, once that training is done,
then again I will take the weight of this train network.
I will just do it a uh, copying all
of this layer by layer weight to this target network.
So for that there is a parameter called network sync rate,
network sync rate.
That is this parameter.
This defines that
after how many steps you want to sync the
training network to the target network, okay?
Then play memory size. These are hyper parameters.
Play memory size means what are the total number
of samples you are going to insert as
and when you fetch a new sample, you're going
to set them into your memory.
Your memory is basically this replay memory.
Insert this memory, you're going to insert it
maximum capacity of the memories.
1000 mini batch size.
You already know deep learning that you are going
to do batch gradient descent.
So out of these thousand samples, you are going
to randomly take 32 samples.
Those 32 samples are basically input and output pair.
They'll be used for training your deep Q network.
The loss function is n nm means squared error,
which is defined under neur network of PyTorch
optimizer will be defining it later on.
Normally we're using Adam optimizer. So what are the action?
Possible actions are lift here it is going LDRU
lift down, right
and up, which is encoded at 0 1 2 3,
lift down, right?
And up 0 1, 2, 3.
Then we are getting into a training loop.
So training is consisting of what are the steps.
First is you have to set your input layer
with the particular state you are currently living in.
Then that state is going to be
feeding to the input layer of network.
It'll have some prediction.
That prediction will be an incorrect prediction, okay?
So what we do is that prediction will
after training it has to be as near as possible
to the output space so that we have it basically,
uh, optimization loop by which are going to optimize that.
Um, output space of your prediction should be as near
as possible to the true the values of your predict, uh,
two values of your target network.
Okay? So this remains as usual.
You get the number of states from your environment,
get the number of actions for a particular state
so you get all possible things.
Yeah. Then you have this silent greed strategy
grid as means if your random value that you are generating,
if it is less than silent, in that case you are going
to do a exploration strategy.
If it is bigger than il, the random value is bigger than il.
You are going to take the help of the previously stored q
uh function values to choose your next possible action.
Okay? Now we are
going to have this memory.
You are getting it from replay memory,
this replay memories defined over here,
this replay memory I think,
but you can consider it as a fast in,
fast out storage space.
Whatever you insert, it'll be inserted at the end
and whatever you are, uh, basically extracting,
it'll be extracted from the head of the queue like that.
It is basically a three four structure.
After that, we are going to take this DQN class
to instant share your policy network and target network.
There has to be, they have to be same architecture, okay?
After that, you are going to assign the values of your
target dqs output layer.
Okay? So what you do you first step is as I told you,
we are going to make a syn syn up that is
syncing from the policy network to target network.
Like this diagram. Every time we are,
once a training is done, we are going
to copy from here to here.
So this copying is basically taken at the first stage itself
right after initialization.
So when you're doing copying, what you do, you use this
PyTorch function called state underscore DICT
state under dictionary.
It'll return all the weight related to the
neur letter architecture.
And then if you're calling this load state dictionary,
these functions are GE getting called from a object called
target, DQN target, DQN.
It is a class, it is object of this class, okay?
After that you just define
what are the optimization algorithm you are using.
That is Adam optimizer
and on which parameter you are going
to do the training look at, we are going
to train on policy DQN.
We have two neural network.
One is policy, one is policy DQ one,
other one is target, DQN.
So we are going to use policy
DQN, okay?
This parameters on which we're going to do the training.
After that we keep on collecting the epi reward return
for ev every episode, this reward, we are going
to make a list of reward
collector over all possible episode.
Okay? So this is episode history.
Now we are going to start our two loops.
First loop is the outer loop is we are
looping over the number of episodes
and the inner loop is for one particular episode
until we hit the terminal state
or we are hitting the ation truncation state.
Till that point of time, we keep on doing
state action reward, state action reward like that, okay?
So we require two loops inside the inner loop.
So before that we have this, this we have
to set this termination condition,
transmission condition to be false.
We're initializing our state to be environment variables.
We are resetting it to any, uh,
normality is resetting to zero state.
So the state you are providing here in the third bracket,
you are going to resetting to this particular state.
Okay? So your state is initialized to zero.
After that you are your zero state is not a al state,
not a ation state.
So we are inside this inner loop.
In the inner loop we are taking the help of F.
Silent strategy is called whether you want
to do exploitation or exploitation.
Exploitation means you are not going
to use your previous knowledge.
You are going to explore the world.
So the condition is set by like this.
If the random value generated
by the random number generated is less than the IL epsilon,
maximum value is one, okay?
And after every episode, the AL value will come down.
So the random value is less than il.
Then you are going to do the random exploration.
If this is not true,
that means this value is bigger than epsilon.
You are going to now go back to your previous knowledge.
So that is called your exploitation strategy.
So exploitation means you are going to take the next action.
So look at every time I'm setting the action
based on either random
or based on the previous knowledge, if I'm going
to use previous knowledge, I have
to use this policy DQN, okay?
From the from the policy DQN.
So policy D can only provide you output.
What are the length of your output?
It is only four out of four possible action.
You are choosing the ARG max. Look at here, AR max.
So maximum value return
by the policy network is four possible values
out of which maximum choosing.
Assign that to your action. Okay?
So that is your next action.
You have got it under that action,
you are now taking your next state and reward.
So all stepping onto action, it'll return you next state
and your reward fine.
So this next state reward
and the state, you have that termination state
or ation state, whichever is happening, it'll be there.
Okay? So all those values, you are putting it as a topple
and you are appending that into your memory.
So memory is defined here.
It is a deep play memory, okay?
It is basically you keep on inserting your
experience topple into your memory.
Then you go to the, yeah, you
update your state variable to the new state, okay?
And then we have not got into the training loop.
The training loop is basically this optimization function
to be kicked in this optimization function
to be kicked in based on a condition called if the
number of experience double
that you have inserted into the memory.
If the experience is sufficiently large,
it is greater than minimal size then
and another condition is if at least one
of the experiences having a positive reward.
If you have got lot of experience
but none of the experience has got a positive reward,
then there is no point
of doing the training of your neural network.
Okay? If these two condition are true,
then only you go ahead and training.
So for training you require
at least a mini batch size of experience.
So this mini batch size I think,
but under the memory you have a lot of experience.
From there you are sampling with
the size of mini batch size.
That is set with 32.
So 32 samples, your aging 30 phase, 32 sample.
It'll be stored in the minibatch.
This minibatch is basically containing your input
and output pair, okay?
Then this input and output pair, you are sending it
to your optimizing function.
Now look at this optimization function.
The way we're calling this optimize is quite different from
any deep learning, uh,
training we have done right there from LSTM or Jan
or uh, transformer whatever till now we have
this one is looking quite different, okay?
Inside this look at whenever we do optimize
and write, we optimize onto some neural network.
So we call that neural network dot optimize.
That optimize will accept argument
what automation algorithm we're using like Adam
or it can be using rm S prop, anything
the parameters for the optimization.
So those parameters are part of that object
by which you're calling optimize.
But here in this case, we are calling this
self optimize, okay?
This self optimiz, we look at we
this self optimize look at this is optimizer here,
this is different from the self.
You will see that this self optimiz there is a variable.
It is optimized. We have not defined its
type of the argument.
Look at here.
So here optimizer we have set it to be none.
Okay? So yeah, so with self
optimize that we're using here
you went, you just crossed it a little bit above.
Mm-hmm There is no definition we are calling it.
So, so there was a definition optimize.
There is a definition, but scroll down a little bit.
It was there sir actually. Hmm, it is there. It is there.
I know because I have written that.
What I'm trying to say is this, for every thing
that you are using, you, if it is a uh, NN dot
function, we specify it specifically.
That's what I'm trying to see that I'm trying
to show you also like this optimizer that you are using
this optimizer, we are specifying that what kind of
object it is that is fetching from the torch.
Okay? So like that this self dot optimize,
it is our own user defined function.
It is not something that we are taking any
existing torch object.
That's what I'm trying to show you.
This self dot optimize, we have a definition,
but prior to that we don't, we have not set any torch
dot some function to e be used for the server optimize.
Okay? So there is a definition.
The definition will be below.
This is the definition of optimize, okay?
So for doing this optimization, this is the main brain
of this deep Q neur network.
So as I told you, this is quite different from the
traditional deep learning of all of you
that you have done it either Jan or VIE
or transformer like that.
Okay? So here inside this we are taking three argument,
what is the input output period.
In the batch format your policy, this is called the network
that you are trying to optimize
and this is the target network.
This target network,
you are not going to do an optimization.
You are setting the value of output
space for the target network.
Use that output space
to train this particular policy be given.
Okay? So the number of states are basically already defined
by your input feature of this policy.
DQN input.
Feature is set out to be 16
because that is your input, uh,
neurons that you're accepting.
So you have a list of current queue list
and target queue list, okay?
I will show you how these two PAs will be getting updated.
Now look at here, this objective
of this optimized function is to train this policy DQN
by the help of, so for any particular neural network
to be trained, you would require input output pair.
The input is basically your state
that you're feeding to this policy.
DQN and output is coming from
pre-specified value of target DQN.
Now how to set that target, please specify below
that is my objective to show you here.
So look at this pre-specified of target queue
is this given here target queue, this target queue,
I am computing from this variable call target, okay?
What is the definition of target?
A target is defined over here.
Okay? So this target is basically exactly this formula
that all of the time we're using, okay?
This part, if the next state
is a terminal state in that terminal state,
whatever word is there, you use that as your target.
If the next state is not a terminal state, in that case
you are going to write this formula.
Okay? So that is,
so if the next state is a terminal state, in that case this,
this condition will be setting out to be terminal state.
True, okay? In that case, whatever reward is returned
for the ssta, you use it at target.
If that is not true, then what you do, you say it that,
don't worry gradient descent
for finding out the target value
because all of these target value that are fetching, uh,
from a tensor, if this particular tens cell is under
training, then in that case you'll be facing a travel.
So you set this to where no gradient descent required.
So you use that formula.
So reward plus gamma, I mean discount factor multiplied
by your this target DQN.
Look at this target, okay?
I have not shown you this function,
how I'm doing the state encoding of a neural network.
So that encoding is done by this function state to DQN input
state to DQN input is given here.
Look at here. This is the encoding of your input state.
If you are passing any particular state
as your input argument, that will accept the argument
of a single integer.
You have total 16 states starting from zero to 15,
whichever state you are going to feed to a new network,
you need to make it as a vector.
So from a single number to vector formation, that is done
by this particular function.
So it'll accept argument of a single
state number ranging from zero to 15.
It'll format tenser of the size of total number
of state total 30 16, okay?
And this tens for that particular element,
which you're passing your number
of hello from your argument.
That is going to set to be one rest dollar zero.
So it is a one hot encoding like this. Okay?
So this one is going to be
Azure input for your neural network.
So whenever I, we are calling this neural network,
we are calling any particular neural network, okay?
So policy DQN, this neural network will accept
what is your input that you're feeding to neural network.
The input is your state.
The state has to be encoded with this.
So it is a vector return
and that vector is going to be accepted for the input
of this neural network.
That is what we're doing it here for reward function.
Also, this is our reward function assignment.
So you are going to feed a particular new state
inside that new state you have
all possible action possible from the new state.
Also, you are taking the maximum out of that
and then that maximum, hello whatever it is returned
by the target network.
You are using that to find out your dword.
This formula only. This
formula, okay?
So look at the, there is a max argument here.
You are getting the maximum from the target DQN.
That is the only difference
that I want to draw your attention.
We are having a pre computed Q function without the
knowledge of neural network.
You can understand this.
When we are going to do deep Q learning this value,
we are getting it from the target, this thing,
this target neural network, the target neural network.
Basically we're not doing a training here.
That is why we require this no grad
statement, okay?
So we get the target value from this
and this target value is assigned under your
target queue action.
This target queue action, you are making it to your list.
Now because why this list is required,
because we are going to make a mini batch, mini batch
of size 32.
So for 32 number of input sample, I need
to have 32 number of output values.
So for target queue I have 32 number of input sample.
I have 32 number of output values that become my
batch output space.
Now batch input space is going to be here. Policy network.
This is what is your current queue? Current queue.
So current queue is basically
these values will be incorrect.
Estimate, fine, let it be
because this is what is our target to refine it.
So I need to make this list so
that it'll become the exact minimum size.
So I'm appending
of this current queue value into the current queue
list, okay?
This current queue list will be incorrect value.
However, this target queue list,
this is going to be a correct value.
Now, after that, what I do, I have
to make this current Q list value.
After the training, these values should be as near
as possible to the target Q list.
So for that I make this
and this as my P off values
to be optimized.
So look at this, I'm making a loss function.
Now this loss function is basically
the first one is my my own estimate,
which is an incorrect estimate
and this is my target, which is a correct test,
correct values provided to you.
So this is a means squared error loss function.
We have already defined NN MSC loss.
So we are going to find out the means square
error between these two.
That will become my loss function assignment
and then I will do a standard method
of doing self optimizer, zero admins,
your neural network all of the way
to become zero by assigning.
By by calling these functions silver word optimizer do zero
grad, all of the neural network will become zero
and then you do it backward.
Uh, back propagation.
That is done by lost or backward
after doing the back propagation.
Now you take a gradient descent,
that means you shift your parameter by every little bit.
You get a new parameter. On those new parameters.
You are now going to do again back propagation.
And then so this is a standard loop of your PyTorch.
Mm-hmm. So that is your optimization function.
This is the optimization function.
This optimization function is getting called from.
It is getting called from where?
Here inside the main training loop.
This is the main training loop.
This is the main training loop, okay?
Definition trained function.
It is getting called only when the conditions are made.
The condition is the memory should be having
a sufficient number of samples,
at least it should be bigger than the mini batch size.
And all of the, at least, at least one
of the experience should be having a positive reward.
Then only there is a meaningfulness
of your doing the training.
Otherwise no need to do training.
Once one step of training is done,
then you decay your AL values.
So every episode goes on, your AL value is falling down
and for every episode you are
appending your return value.
It is SAL history.
For every episode also you are going
to append your reward value, okay?
Some of reward, you are doing this.
Yes, some of reward
for a part episode you are attaching them.
That's it. Okay?
So this, you can train it,
it'll not take much time
because we're using a pre computed value from this target.
So how the
Target, uh, DQ
and uh, uh, we expect the values would be uh, correct.
Uh,
We're using a formula of this thing.
Look at the, I'll show you. Let, yeah.
So this formula is not exactly mimic of this
because we don't have this subtraction
value in this code.
We have set it to be, if it is a terminal state,
this is correct, but if it is a non terminal state,
this one we, we are not doing a subtraction.
We are just doing reward plus
your discount factor multiplied by maximum Q,
functional return by your target DQN.
Okay? So this formula,
we have not taken into account of this subtraction
because uh, I just wanted
to see whether the neur network is able to train
considering the value in the target are a correct value,
Okay?
It may not be correct.
We, there is a trouble, uh, for doing this subtraction.
There is a trouble because I'm going
to update my current estimate.
The current estimate is not
yet completed from the Neval network.
That's why there was a trouble for me.
That's why I chose not to do that.
Now my objective here is to suppose I have access
to the correct value then can I use them
when my programming, whether it is able to train it or not,
Okay?
I think that is why reinforcement learning, it is
still evolving for every algorithm.
Just 2021, there's a new algorithm came up from open ai.
As I told you, this is not going to be possible.
This part gradient of this is not possible
because you have access to only sample.
We don't have any access to any kind of
parametrized function.
So in 2021, OpenAI has came up
with this algorithm called PPO Pro principle, uh,
proximal policy optimization.
Okay? In 2024,
I mean just last year when deep seek came up
deep has given another algorithm called GRPO.
It's a group relative policy optimization.
That algorithm has overtaken PPO also.
So there are a lot of active research going on
who are trying to overcome that problem.
GRPO has been invented from deep SIPP from China.
PPO has come up from
Open AI in USA.
But the thing is GRPO has beaten PPO
and that is why there is a very
big um, debate.
China is also about taking USA in AI domain.
Okay? So after doing this training, you see that this is the
episode count, how many episode I have trained it.
Thousand episode slippery is set to be true here. Okay?
Thousand episode I have trained
and tasting, I have done it for 10 episode.
Okay? So for a thousand episode,
my reward has evolved.
This is the reward
for every episode we have plotted up, okay?
So as the episode goes on, the reward is going up, okay?
And your, this is the episode count
and this one is your F silent
decaying F is decaying fine.
Now what is the output that is shown over here?
That is, this is the state zero, zero is the state,
last value is here 15.
So this is state count, okay? 0 0 2 15.
Under state of zero, your
Q function is prescribing.
You should take a right action.
Okay, and what are your Q value possible here?
Under state of S And that is your zero.
This are the queue
halls, Okay?
So look at the highest value belong to which 0.2.
Okay, 0.2. So what are my state encoding?
0, 1, 2, 3. So the state number two stands for what?
Encoding. The encoding has been done already here.
Yeah. 0, 1, 2, 3, right?
Okay, so it is prescribing that
and that state of zero you have.
So just look at it. What is it? 0 1, 2, 3.
Uh, just let me copy this,
but I don't go back again and again.
Okay? This is your actions. Now your output,
the output, this let's say next it zero one.
The zero one, the prescription coming out from the
queue function is right.
Look at the value possible for the state
of one, what is the highest value?
0.24. 0.24 stands for?
Right again, because here this is this index, right?
Similarly for state of two,
what is the highest value coming out?
0.19 here, what is that value sign here is, right?
Like that. It goes on, okay,
for every state it is prescribing
what action you should take it.
So can you explain for the 12, well,
12 Fourth line.
Fourth line.
Which one? In the output or
No? Uh,
before training, sir, there, um,
In the output sir.
Then you would answer In the output
itself. Fourth line.
Fourth. Yeah. Fourth line here.
Fourth line. This line? Yeah,
This one sir? Yeah,
This line?
Yes. Yes. Okay.
So at the state of 12,
what are the values?
Q value, these are the values. Which is the highest value?
0.07. 0.07 stands for? Left.
Left, yes. Okay, left.
So it is, this is a result of your maximization
from this list like that
for every state it is the enterprise like this.
From this list, what is the maximized value? 0.24. Right?
0.24 belong two action. Top list, right?
Okay. Understood sir.
Okay, so that is for every state, what is the action?
You must take it. Now, once you have got this,
you can make a pathfinding algorithm.
Pathfinding algorithm means starting from zero. Okay?
Which state? You must go so that you can reach 15.
Can you tell me
or uh, and you just need to follow RR.
You just need to follow this, this policy action.
Zero zero R. Zero zero r.
Okay, so what is the right of your 0, 0 1?
The state of one. You go to the state of one again,
right again, right?
What the right of hand is 2, 2, 2, 2.
After two it's taking, right? You go into three.
After three you go into, right?
So after three, if you go into right,
then you'll be hitting the wall, you 1, 2, 3,
you'll be hitting the wall.
However, since the slippery environment,
you will be somehow getting into some other uh, state.
Okay? Like that it goes on, yeah,
if I said this to be slippery, to be false, okay?
In that case it'll take much lesser time.
If I just do this, it'll take much lesser time.
This program I'll not be sharing
because I'm not fully completed of the part.
I just did that. Not a hurry.
So this is after training. Training is not completed.
So look at here. Zero, zero D, you go
to down, what is the down of zero?
Zero. There is four state from four you go to again down,
what is the down of four again?
Eight state after A getting into eight, you go
to right, it is nine.
Nine. You go to right 10.
At 10 you go to down, which down of 10 is 14. 14.
14 you go to right, you go to 15. 15 you go to left.
So 15 is a target state, okay? Zero to 15.
So looking at target state, okay? So that is how it goes on.
If it is a non-slip environment,
how about a slippery environment?
It is not straightforward like this, this, this, that,
that you go to 15
Sir. In the target
state we should have the reward as one.
No sir.
The target state. Yes. Okay.
This, this doesn't stand for reward. Reward.
No s saying yes sir. I'm just saying.
But in target state, uh, we should have something
where we should get bin because
otherwise it is again showing us left.
No, it may show as left once you have reached your uh,
termination state of 15, even though it your state
action may say you take a lift,
but you are not gonna take any more action
because you have reached your destination. Yes.
So then, then there's not be any
recommendation should terminate sir. So
No, this recommendation, this is a simple if condition,
whoever is producing the highest hello, it'll output
that it itself at termination condition.
You may suppress this output at all.
Yes sir. Is we should suppress that output that,
That you can do it in a code.
Yes it is. Okay.
So and basically we should take
that trained recommendation like
because we have two set up, uh, recommendation one is random
before training and there is a train.
So we go
for the path evaluation based on the trained recommendation
Trained, yes, yes, this is, it has been shown in the
starting itself before 20.
It's a random thing that we have initialized.
Okay,
so when is your session ending?
This is 10th of January
22nd, second February, sir.
22nd February.
So we have three weeks
and in the February also we are going to get
1, 2, 3, 3, 3, 6 weeks are there, okay,
so six weeks means six into two 12 classes.
Okay? Okay, fine.
So if you don't have more doubt we can
end the two days class then here.
Sir, can you go to the code output?
Uh, closed it just now. Oh,
So here in the last line, uh, for the policy trained,
uh, in the 14th state.
Mm-hmm. Why is it taking our sir? It should take down right?
So based on it, the maximum value is uh, 1.01
and it'll be down, right?
Let me see. State and code. L-D-R-U-L-D-R-U.
So maximum hello? LDR one.
So that is the how it is R
Oh, okay. Okay, got it.
LDRU. Got it.
Okay. So if you don't have anyone doubt, we can
end the session today. Thank you.
Thank you sir. Thank you sir. Sir.